Let us create this method, buildInsertRequest,
in the Metamodel class BuildInsertRequest.
Let me type in the form of this InsertRequest.
It's going to be something like that, insert into Person,
which is the name of the class.
Then I will have the name of the primary key,
and the name of the different columns, and then values,
and a set of question marks corresponding to the names of the columns.
This is the syntax of the SQL string that needs to be
passed to this PreparedStatement object.
So first,
we are going to concentrate on the list of the column names separated by commas.
This is quite easy to do.
The first name is the name of the primary key column.
So we have this primary key column, PrimaryKeyField,
and we can ask for the name of that column.
Who is the getName method?
Let us put that in a new local variable,
which is the primaryKeyColumnName, and then we can get the columns,
which is a list of ColumnField objects.
But we can stream this list, and map it,
take the column field, and call the getName method on it,
and put the result in another list.
And this is a List of String.
And in fact, I'm going to rename it because this is the list of the columnNames.
By the way, this can be returned as a method reference, which is a little nicer.
And this primaryKeyColumnName can be added as the
first element of the columnNames List.
So let us do that.
ColumnNames.add, and since this is a List,
we can add it as a first element like this,
primaryKeyColumnName.
So now this columnNames object holds all the names
of the columns of our request.
So we can transform this list into the right string,
let me call it columnElement, we can use this factory method String.join,
pass the delimiter as a parameter, and then the columnNames,
and this is going to join all the elements of that
list using the comma as a separator.
So this columnElement corresponds exactly to the String of
characters with the columnNames separated by commas.
Now we need to create the second element of it,
which is just a set of question marks separated by commas.
So for that, we just need to have the number of those question marks,
and we can just call getColumns.
GetColumns .size is the number of columns,
and we need to add one since there is one column for the primaryKey,
and this is the numberOfColumns.
From this numberOfColumns,
we have a very useful factory method on this IntStream object,
which is the range starting from 0, ending with the numberOfColumns.
This is going to create a stream of integers from 0
to the numberOfColumns minus 1, and we want to map that to object,
and each index will be just mapped to the question mark.
I'm going to put it here,
and we want to collect that using a joiner with this delimiter.
So now I have a question marks element, so now I can create the query string.
It's just insert into, this is the class name,
so this.clss .getSimpleName + opening parentheses + the columnElements,
and we need to close these parentheses, add the values here,
and do the same with the questionMarkElement,
and close the parentheses.
And this is what I want to return.
Just to be more readable, I can put this in a method.
The shortcut is Alt+Shift+M, and I'm going to call the method buildColumnNames.
I can do the same for this part of the string, buildQuestionMarksElement, just to make this code more readable.